hello friends myself biggish akka and i
welcome you all on my channel birthday
the learning platform and in today's
lecture we will discuss about like how
we can accept the new connections which
are coming at a server port from the
client last video we saw that how a
client can connect to the server and how
the server knows that there is something
at the port which is trying to connect
there is some client which is trying to
connect so today we will discuss
something new that how we accept that
connection and how we proceed further
okay so let's move ahead so this is my
server program this was a server program
and in this server program you can see
that after the select call if some sort
of if some client tries to connect it
then this fr I mean the read socket set
it becomes set it says that yes there is
something who is trying to connect right
so the for the sockets where we are
reading for the incoming connections
that said has been set now the socket
descriptor in this set in that set has
been said now so we say that we are
ready to read and something new came up
the port came up at the boat okay so
this happens when something is ready
some we are ready to read something and
I will focus on this part only because
we are trying to connect from a client
right so client is trying to connect to
this server so we will just discuss this
one so I am just going to remove all
this and I am just going to place it
inside our function okay I will write a
separate function where I will place all
these things so my new function name
would be word process the new request
okay so what I will do here in the
process the new request what I will do I
will just set if FD h set what is my F T
ends socket like so this n socket let's
do one thing let's make it global I just
make it global this way and here you
need to just write like and socket I
know this is not the right programming
practice to declare these things this
way you should have written it inside a
class or it should be in a more elegant
manner right but just to make you
understand I am doing these things my
focus is to make the concept clear and
not to write a great program here it
should be a program which you should
understand right so let's move ahead and
here here I'm trying to find if in the
read set my list a socket is ready to
read okay so there is something where
mice listener socket is ready to read it
let me socket inside the read descriptor
is ready so it means that there is some
new connection request some new client
has tried to connect you so in that case
what you will do you will just create
one more in and climb socket is equal to
accept okay so this is the accept call
this accept call will accept the new
connection
which has been made which has been tried
from the client side to make a
connection with the server right so here
we will just give the name of the
listener socket which is ends pocket and
then what we will give we will gave null
you can see that the second argument is
the pointer to stock address okay so
what what it will return it will
basically return the variables which
will show you like from which client
like what is the IP address of that
client from where it has came okay so as
of now we don't need that so I'm just
not doing anything here and the last
argument is pointer to address lane so
basically this pointer should be in n
lane is equal to size of struct sock a
double D are okay and here you need to
pass address of n so this is the way it
gives you the client socket so when you
accept it it will give you a new socket
ID this socket is the listener socket
please remember this that this is the
listener socket through which using this
communication channel using this socket
using this file descriptor or you here
you can say that using this socket
descriptor you are just opening a
channel where you are able to receive
the new requests from the client
right but you cannot use this socket to
communicate over the network with the
same client this socket is only an open
channel to accept the new request
whenever you have to accept a new client
and after that if you have to
communicate to that client then in that
case using the accept call you will get
a new client socket you will get a new
socket ID and with this socket ID using
this socket ID you can communicate with
the server or we declined okay so now if
you see this in Incline then if and
client socket is greater than 0 then you
have accepted this and since you have
accepted this you can just put it into
the client FD set ok so what is the
client f decide the client FD set will
be same as this this read FD set because
if you have accepted a client then you
can respond to that client and that
client can again send a new request to
you to fulfill some other request
ok so that socket I mean this one this n
client socket this socket has also
become a read state socket descriptor ok
it will it should be in the read set
socket descriptor list so you should put
this into the read set socket descriptor
and suppose this is not the only client
that you will be dealing with there may
be number of clients at the same time
okay so let's hard code it int n err
client to 5 let's say that we will
handle only 5 only 5 points so what we
need to do inclined socket is greater
than 0 then n
a reclined not this way for in 10 index
is equal to 0 and indexed smaller than 5
n index + + right so what I am doing
here I am just iterating through this
giant array and wherever I find that the
client array add at a particular index
is empty or is set to 0 at that position
I will set the new socket descriptor
this client socket descriptor if n err
client n index is equal to 0 then in
this case what I will do I will just put
it into the client index an array client
and indexed just putting it here like n
client socket right apart from this what
I need to do I need to do one more
change and here you need to break it
since you got it so you need to break it
okay and if it has all been iterated and
you don't find any particular index then
what you what you will do if n index you
should put like this n index you should
look outside the / u in an indexed ok so
if n index is equal to 5 then what it
means that
there is no more space for a new
connection no space for a new connection
okay so only five connections active
connections client connections can be
there for this server it can handle only
five active client connections that's
why I have given five here it just for
the example you should not do this in
the real life applications it may be
that your server need to be designed for
as many requests as possible or maybe at
max thousand requests at the same time
possible so in that case rather than
using this you can use the vector you
can use any of the STL's or you can use
a link list
okay anyways whatever you want to use
you can do that okay there is no space
no space for a new connection
okay so basically you can put this four
loop before the accept call you you can
understand the idea like you should find
this before you accept a new call okay
and if you if you don't have any space
left then you just need to deny this
accept call you should not accept this
call you should keep this client socket
into the waiting list like whenever a
new slot will be empty this new client
connection request will be entertained
anyways I mean any kind of requirement
that you have as per that you can create
your server you can develop your own
server that way only okay so this is the
one place where you need to do you need
to just take a new client socket and
using this client socket you can
communicate over the network
okay so apart from this what I want to
do like at the same time when I am
putting this client socket I just want
to send a message to the client that now
I have received your connection send but
what you will do you have to send the
message to the client so what you will
do end line socket and then you will
write God message got the connection
done successfully got the connection
been successfully and then you will
break it and after that what is the
other option
the length is let's say it should be 255
and then the last option is flags put it
0 as of now we will discuss further
about this 4th argument so what I am
doing here whenever a new connection
will come after the Select call what I
am doing I am just removing all this
thing
processed new what was the name the name
of the function was processed the new
request process the new request okay so
here you need to put it process the new
request so as of now we are discussing
about the new client connections so what
I will do here I will just check whether
my socket the listener socket has got
some new connection request if my
listener socket has said then it means
that I have got a new connection to
connect to okay and in that case I will
just check if I have connected it and I
will just check if my connection pooling
list is done or not if that is done then
we will just send a message that no
space for new connection and after that
we should this did we should close the
connection okay but I'm not going to
write that much of code as of not in
today's video I am not going to do that
in coming videos I will do that I will
show you that how you can leave it as
your program to do those things so but
what is here
so here you need to write like 37 it is
saying that it is the total length of
this message which is 37 this is the
total length of the message which is 37
and I was trying to put 255 so in that
case it might be reading 255 bytes and
those to fit those extra bytes may have
the garbage characters right so for that
it was giving me warning okay so I have
written this function send I have just
sent the message so let's go back to the
other end which is the client so at the
client end what I need to do if it is
connected to the client then what I will
do I will just try to receive here
receive what I will receive over this
pocket what is my socket at the client
end what is my socket this one is my
socket and client socket and client
socket and then buffer you need to just
declare a buffer of 255 just a slice
with 0 and then you give it buff and
then what will be the link 255 and then
give 0 so in the server program I am
just sending the message that I have
connected and here I will just receive
the message so we just need to see what
will happen if my server connects to the
client which my client connect to the
server and after the server accepted the
connection and after accepting the
connection server is sending a message
to the client saying that the connection
was successful and we are expecting then
when that whenever it will be sent it
will be received at this point and it
should contain the same message which
was sent by the server I mean this
message god the connection done
successfully and here it should get
printed
I am printing this reusable F okay so
now I just need to print it so before
printing it I just want to put gate care
here and again DL just press any care
just press any key on keyboard to see
the message received from the server
okay see you from this server so when
you will press it then only the buffer
then only the buffer will be printed and
preferably can buffer will be containing
the message from the server which was
sent by the server okay so let's start
our server
what is this gate care let me just build
it let's see if give some it gives some
issues
okay it doesn't give me any issue so
this is fine now let's start my server
and let's see what happens start it
so this has been started now and it
should give me the message that it was
able to start listening to the local
port okay and then let's start my client
it's the client let me start the client
f5
okay so it has just sent the message to
the client through the server
I just tried to connect to the server
and server should find out it like data
on port and processing now right so the
server what server did like as of now
the server did like this server got the
request after the select call and it's
showing you that data is on port
processing now and then it goes to this
function which is process the new
request and there it could have been
accepted this and after that it could
have been said this client socket and
after that it was able to send the
message and that message since it has
sent at the other end I mean at the
client end at this point of time it
might have been received receive is also
a blocking call it waits until there is
something on the port to read
right so this is a blocking call if you
have done received then until to receive
something it will block okay then it was
like the message just press any key to
see the message received and as soon as
we will press any key then we will see
the message which was sent by the server
and this was the message which was
saying by the server god the connection
done successfully so this was the
message sent by the server to the client
and client has received that now the
connection has been made successfully
and now for the further communication we
need to just store all the addresses all
the new socket descriptors in this
manner this is the way as soon as you
will be getting the new client sockets
you just need to keep putting those
clients occurs to this area client right
and you will just send them the message
that connection then successfully and
after that you need to set all these
Eric lines to the FD to the into the FD
set FR because since the client has been
connected then the client may again send
a new message to fulfill to ask you to
fulfill some new request i mean to ask
server to fulfill new request okay so
for that you need to do one more change
here at this point when you are setting
all the fr and f DS in the empty set you
just need to write like this for int n
index is equal to zero and indexed
smaller than five and index plus plus
okay so what we will do if an air client
and index is not equal to zero
I mean it has some value then what you
will do
FD underscore set an era client an index
this will contain the socket descriptor
the new socket descriptor using which
you will communicate with the clients
you will send and receive the messages
with the client and FR and again at the
same time these sockets can also stain
also throw some error so you just need
to M array point m n index address of F
II okay so this is the way you can set
it
you used you need to use comma here
right so now whenever you will select a
new connection from the client and after
selecting the connection you are just
putting it into the array here and after
that when you will again go back to the
loop then you must need to take care of
that you have also some new clients and
you need to put them as well in the
f d sets okay so this is the way you
need to set all the socket descriptors
into the ft set and now if something new
comes from the client which is already
connected on the port okay so in that
case this select will set this
particular client socket descriptor as
well set for getting a new request and
it will be able to read it just like you
have used FD it's set on the on the
listener socket the same way you can
just write a code here like this is the
end point you can just write like else
if not if just else for an index and
then index is equal to zero and indexed
smaller than five and index plus plus
and then you will do like this
if FB age set and client array
and arrogant and indexed right
if particular if particular client
socket descriptor is ready to read in
this particular FD set then got the new
message from the client okay
so this is the way you can deal with
this you have got the new message from
the client and you will just receive it
so we will just see that how we can do
that in next video okay just receive the
new message and after that you just
queue that our new worker of your server
to fulfill the request okay so this we
will see in the next video how we can do
that but I think you understood that why
I am just adding the things in this
array and also you know that what accept
call does and what is this new socket
and for what purpose this is used okay
this is closed no socket and this is the
new socket for the new client connection
using this socket only you will be able
to send and receive the message to a
client a client will be sending you the
message on the same socket and you will
be responding to the same request on the
same socket descriptor okay so that way
it will work so that is all for that is
all for today and in next video we will
discuss that how if if some new requests
come from the client not for connection
but after the connection
sending some message receiving some
message may be it may be like chatting
with the server or it may be like just
putting some message into a file from
the from the client client is sending a
request like some contents are there and
you need to put that content into a
particular file and respond the client
that yes the message was written
successfully to the
to a file on the server right so
something like that we will try to
create okay so we will meet soon in the
next video so till then I would request
you that just practice it yourself and
just share my video like it and you will
get a lot of good things here on my
channel so just like it share it and
subscribe my channel so that you get
more and more videos ok
so let's meet again very soon so till
then have a nice day bye bye